

HARTING round 2: the show-and-tell plan

@media (max-width:560px){#deploy-stamp{position:static !important;display:block;top:auto !important;right:auto !important;bottom:auto !important;left:auto !important;width:auto;max-width:calc(100% - 20px);margin:6px 10px 0;}}@media print{#deploy-stamp{position:static !important;}}

v3 · 2026-09-17-08:23:40 MT

HARTING round 2

&#9776;

TL;DR

Quick Reference

Do this first

What I built

The seam

GE stories

Tessera

Your lines

Questions to ask

Council

Karpathy

I need from you

Verified / not

HARTING round 2: the show-and-tell plan

HR AI Expert &middot; with the hiring manager and their manager &middot; Monday 2026-09-21, 8:00am Mountain &middot; built 2026-09-16

TL;DR

The artifacts are built, not just scoped. Two things stand between you and Monday: nobody has sent you an invite, and one claim on your record is unconfirmed.

Built and ready to screen-share:
 a four-question test for whether work should get AI at all, that test applied across seven real HR workflows, a first-90-days causal chain, and the list of where your own system stops and a human decides.

They carry no interview framing and no HARTING branding on purpose
, so you can share your screen without the room reading a document with their name on it. A clean copy is already in your Downloads folder as 
HR-AI-working-documents.html
, which opens offline with no login, and it prints to PDF cleanly if you would rather send it.

The blocker:
 there is no round-two invite in your Gmail and nothing on your calendar for Monday 8:00am. No platform, no join link, no names. A drafted email to Nancy is in 
Do this first
.

The seam is real and already spoken.
 Nancy named it to your face: your AI work has been at your own company plus a small number of others, not enterprise scale. Name it yourself in the first five minutes rather than let it sit.

The bridge:
 you have run the whole loop end to end at a smaller scale, and the harder half of the big loop at their size. Landing a system on people who did not ask for it is what breaks rollouts, and that half is on your record at enterprise scale.

Cut, on Council's near-unanimous read:
 the teardown of HARTING's own candidate process. Telling your hosts their invite went to your spam folder reads as a candidate correcting the room, and Nancy sent that invite.

Tessera: show the principle, never the product.
 The main risk is not that they build it. It is that mentioning a product you intend to sell makes a hiring manager hear a business you are going back to. 
Full reasoning
.

The reframe worth more than any artifact:
 they signed RISE with SAP while growing US headcount 64%. That is a sequencing problem on top of a capacity problem, and you have done exactly that shape of work before.

Quick Reference: have this open during the call

Logistics

Monday 2026-09-21, 8:00am Mountain.
 That is 
9:00am Central
 in Elgin and 
4:00pm
 in Germany and Switzerland

No invite found.
 Nothing in Gmail, nothing on your calendar. Platform, join link and both names unknown. See 
Do this first

Round one: Nancy Lesnicki, Sr. Talent Advisor, 2026-09-08. Thank-you sent 9/09

HR AI Expert, req 2287, Elgin IL, hybrid, $110k to $150k plus 10% discretionary

Norm Smallwood call at 10:00am the same morning. Two hours clear after this one

HARTING, fast

Third-generation family-owned, around 6,000 people, roughly &euro;1.1bn, up about 17%

Americas grew 33%, the fastest region. Elgin is Americas HQ, around 188 people, mid-expansion

They have said publicly they plan to grow US headcount by 64%

Just signed 
RISE with SAP
. A group-wide ERP move runs underneath this seat

Global top-management HQ in Switzerland since 1 Oct 2025. Legal entity stays in Espelkamp

Your positioning

Lead with capacity, not AI.
 Headcount up 64% while HR stays the size it is

Name the seam in the first five minutes.
 Nancy already named it, so the room already has it

Underneath the capacity reframe and Story 2 is one identity, not two arguments: you build the plan where none exists, you do not just run one someone else already wrote. Say it once, do not compete with the GE stories for airtime

The bridge: the whole loop at a smaller scale, and the harder half of the big loop at their size

Ten years in global HR leadership for a Fortune 100 company, most recently four years in Dubai. One span, never additive

Comp: upper half of the published band. Raise level early, do not wait to be asked

Top questions to ask

Where does RISE with SAP sit against this roadmap, and does HR AI wait for it or run alongside it?

Who owns the global HR AI agenda today, and what does this seat decide on its own?

Is this a new seat, and what does good look like twelve months in?

What was the third C, alongside culture and competency?

Open the working documents

Opening line, compressed:
 ten years in global HR leadership, the through line is being the person who had to make a new system actually land with people who did not ask for it, then a reporting pack that took six to eight hours became a ten minute workflow, and now the part you care most about is the line between what the machine does alone and what it brings back to a person. Full version in 
Your lines
.

Do this first, before anything else

I could not find a round-two invite anywhere.

I searched your Gmail for HARTING and for Lesnicki and read every thread. I listed your calendar across 19 to 22 September and searched it for HARTING. The only HARTING calendar entries that exist are the round-one interview on 2026-09-08 and the guard block around it, both in the past. 
Monday 8:00am to 10:00am Mountain is open on your calendar.
 The most recent thing from Nancy arrived today at 2:16pm Mountain and it is a benefits PDF, with no invite attached and no meeting details in the body.

Either the invite reached you somewhere I cannot see, by phone, text, LinkedIn or verbally, or it has not been sent. 
I am not going to guess the two interviewers' names, the platform or the join link, and nothing on this page invents them.

The email to send today

Drafted, not sent. You send it. It does the scheduling job and the preparation job in one message, which is why it is worth sending even if you already have the details another way.

Copy subject

Monday, and one question

Copy body

Nancy,

Thank you for sending the benefits guide.

I have Monday at 9:00 Central for the next conversation. I do not think the invite has reached me yet, so would you send it across when you get a chance.

One other thing that would help me come prepared. Could you tell me who I will be speaking with and what they are each closest to. I would rather spend the hour on what actually matters to them than guess at it.

Looking forward to it.

Why it asks for the names.
 Recruiters answer this without hesitation, and it is the difference between preparing for two people and preparing for a job title. It also quietly signals that you prepare, which is the thing this whole conversation is about.

An inference, labelled as one.
 8:00am Mountain is 4:00pm in Germany and Switzerland, a normal end-of-day European slot and an unusually early US one, which 
suggests
 a European participant. Round one recorded your reporting line as a Germany-based manager who has been in the US about a year and will return to Germany, plus a US-based person alongside. Those two point the same way. 
Neither is confirmation.

What I built, what I cut, and why

Open the working documents

Four documents on one page, so you open one link rather than four. They carry 
no interview framing, no HARTING name and no codenames
, so they read as work product rather than interview preparation if you share your screen. The copy in your Downloads folder is the one to use live, because it opens offline and never shows a login prompt.

Built
 The four-question test: should this work get AI at all

Four questions in a deliberate order. The first two decide whether the work is worth automating, the second two decide whether it is safe to. Volume and shape, whether errors get caught, whether one named person owns the output, and whether somebody's livelihood rides on the decision.

What it proves:
 judgment and restraint. Every other candidate arrives with use cases. You arrive with the filter that kills most use cases, including attractive ones. For a conservative family-owned manufacturer whose HR and legal sit under one board seat, and whose recruiting AI is high-risk under EU rules, a candidate who says no in the right places is worth more than one who says yes everywhere.

Built
 The test applied across seven real HR workflows

The same four questions run against policy questions, interview scheduling, drafting, engagement and exit feedback, workforce reporting, candidate screening, and performance calibration. Each gets a verdict.

What it proves, and this is the part that will land:
 the test produces different answers for work that looks superficially similar. Screening is the first thing every function reaches for, and it is the one place the test says slow down. Answering the same policy question hundreds of times a month is unglamorous, entirely safe, and returns real hours immediately. 
Starting with the boring row is how you earn the right to attempt the interesting one.

Built
 The first ninety days, as a causal chain

Five steps, each producing the input the next needs, landing on the single front door their posting calls a One HR AI Experience. Find where the hours actually go, run that list through the test, take the survivors to the affected people before building, pilot exactly one with oversight designed in from day one, then let that pilot's own numbers choose the next two.

What it proves:
 that you think in consequences rather than activities, and that you know a rollout at a German-headquartered company ships because the affected people agreed to it, not because it worked technically. It closes with the sequencing question their RISE programme creates, which is what turns a generic plan into one written for them.

Built
 Where the machine stops and a person decides

Seven categories where your own systems are not allowed to act alone: it reaches a real person, it is published under a name, it touches money, it destroys or moves data irreversibly, it changes who can access what, somebody's livelihood rides on it, and it would weaken one of the rules itself.

What it proves:
 the thing almost nobody else in that process will have. You wrote the governance before the system went live rather than after something went wrong. It is also the most transferable thing you own, because a damage list is scale-independent. The categories do not change when the company gets bigger, only the volume does.

Every internal name is stripped.
 No codenames, no system names, no ticket references. Each item is described by what it does.

Cut
 The teardown of HARTING's own candidate process

I designed this one and then cut it. It was the most creative artifact on the list and the most dangerous. The idea was to use the one HARTING HR workflow you have genuine first-hand experience of, their hiring process, which you went through, including their invite landing in your spam folder.

It is still a candidate correcting his hosts.
 Four of five Council voices flagged it. Nancy sent that invite, she is on the team, and she is the person who has advocated for you so far. An observation that would be generous from a colleague reads as superior from a candidate.

Keep the instinct, lose the artifact.
 If they ask what you have noticed about them, one honest sentence is available: you have been through their candidate process yourself, and it taught you that the employee experience and the candidate experience run on the same plumbing, so whatever you do for one you should check against the other. That keeps the insight and drops the audit. If you ever want to pass on the spam-folder detail, do it after an offer, privately, to Nancy, as a favour.

Scoped, not built
 The before-and-after of the GE reporting process

I deliberately did not build this one, and the reason is a fact I cannot verify.
 Six to eight hours becoming a ten minute workflow is the strongest single AI proof point you have, because it happened inside a Fortune 100, on its systems, under its constraints.

But your own canonical record flags the role attribution on that dashboard as unconfirmed. It sits in the GE Vernova block and is explicitly marked as needing a one-sentence confirmation from you that has never been given. Spoken, you describe what you did in your own words and you are accurate in the moment. Printed under a heading, it hardens into a claim I cannot source. 
Confirm it (see 
question 2
) and I will build it in about two hours.

The seam, and the honest bridge across it

State the problem plainly

They are hiring for enterprise-scale AI in HR. Your AI build evidence is at a smaller scale, your own business plus a small number of others. Your enterprise evidence is change management inside GE, which is not the same claim. 
Nancy named this to your face when you asked her directly what was holding her back
, and she told you to lead with the GE change management precisely because of it.

So the gap is not a secret you are managing. It is a known item the hiring manager has almost certainly been briefed on. That changes the correct move: a gap the room already knows about gets worse every minute you do not mention it, because they are waiting to see whether you will.

The bridge, and why this one is honest

The tempting move is to make the AI work sound bigger than it was. Do not. It is checkable, it is not that big, and inflating it costs you the one thing you actually have, which is that you say true things about your own record.

The loop

Where you have done it

At what scale

Find the work worth automating

The reporting process at GE, and every use case in your own system

Both

Decide what the machine does and where it stops

Your own system, written before go-live

Smaller

Build it and run it in daily production

Your own system

Smaller

Land it on people who did not ask for it

GE: a platform migration, a restructuring across countries, a unionized plant, a hiring process

Enterprise

Keep it alive after the launch excitement ends

Both

Both

The row in bold is the one that breaks enterprise rollouts, and it is the row where your evidence is at their size. That is the whole argument, and it is true.

Council disagreed with itself here, and the disagreement is worth carrying into the room.

One reading: a skeptical manager hears "I have not done it but my approach would transfer," which is what every candidate says, so the GE stories have to carry the bridge. The other reading: they are not buying proof of enterprise AI at all. A company that wanted that hires from a consultancy and pays well above this band. An individual-contributor Expert seat at $110k to $150k, in Elgin, partly reporting into Germany, is a company buying the 
first credible person
 in its HR function, someone who will survive a works council, respect the EU rules, and not embarrass a family name. 
The band and the title price the second reading as more likely, but that is a judgment and not a fact.
 Hold both and let their first two questions tell you which room you are in.

The reframe that is worth more than any artifact

They signed RISE with SAP, a group-wide move to SAP Cloud ERP Private, framed by their own CEO as the foundation for using data and AI across their processes. Their HR backbone is SAP SuccessFactors. At the same time the Americas grew 33% and they have publicly said they plan to grow US headcount by 64%.

Put those together and this is not really an AI seat. It is a 
capacity
 seat with a 
sequencing
 problem underneath it. An HR function that does not grow while its population grows 64% has a capacity problem before it has an AI problem. And an HR AI agenda landing on top of a live ERP migration has to be sequenced against that migration or it gets starved of the very platform it depends on.

You have done exactly this shape of work.
 You helped with a Workday rollout during GE's migration years, and you did the multi-year workforce plan for a redesigned engineering organization during a tight-budget cycle. Sequencing a people agenda against a platform programme under a budget constraint is the job, and it is on your record.

Nobody else interviewing for this seat will have connected the RISE announcement to this requisition. It says you read their year rather than their job description, and it costs one sentence.

The GE change-management half, which Nancy told you to lead with

Nancy's guidance was specific: because you have not implemented AI at enterprise scale, talk about the change management you did inside GE. That is the half you can win outright, and it deserves the same preparation as the AI half.

A story needs a day, a person, a before and an after.
 Your record has the people and the outcomes. It is thin on days and scenes, and I am not going to invent either. Every gap is in 
what I need from you
.

Story 1. The platform that landed because people trusted one person to ask

The one that maps most directly onto this job.
 GE migrated to Workday around 2018 to 2019. You helped with the rollout, and afterwards you became the person colleagues came to for help, without anyone appointing you to it.

Say it exactly that way. 
You did not lead the rollout and you were never the official expert.
 The unofficial version is the stronger story anyway, and it answers their real question: a platform lands when the people using it have somebody they trust enough to admit confusion to. That is an adoption mechanism, it is free, and most rollouts do not have one. It is the cleanest answer to their bullet about driving enablement, upskilling and adoption across a global HR community.

Say this too, because it is the honest edge:
 your platform depth is Workday, and Oracle before it. You have not worked hands-on in SuccessFactors. Name it before they find it. The pattern of standing up and governing an HR platform transfers; the vendor underneath does not have to.

Story 2. The restructuring, and the plan that had to survive a budget

You co-led the restructuring of the services side of the global engineering organization into a unified operating model, multi-country and multi-stakeholder. You worked on the engineering organization redesign with Diane Beagle, and you did the two-to-three year workforce plan for the new organization during GE's tight-budget years.

Say co-led, never led. Say the services side, not all of engineering.
 The scope as it actually was is large enough.

Why it belongs here:
 this is the sequencing-under-constraint story, and it is the one that matches their RISE situation. A multi-year people plan built during a budget squeeze is the same muscle as an HR AI roadmap built during an ERP migration. Underneath it is the same standing strength: there was no template for that redesign either, and you built the plan rather than waiting for one. Do not lead with that framing here, the GE stories carry the room. Let it sit underneath, so it reinforces Story 2 instead of competing with it.

Story 3. Madison, and the floor you walked every day

The best change-management story you have, and the one your resume hides.
 A large unionized plant making anesthesia machines and infant-care products. You covered the site HR lead role on an interim basis for a few months while GE searched for the permanent partner. You handled the investigations and the issues between the union and leadership. You walked the floors multiple times a day because you do not think HR should sit in an office, and you would have jumped on the line yourself if the union had allowed it.

Medical-device manufacturing, union environment, on site. 
For an industrial manufacturer with a works council culture this is the most relevant thing on your record, and it is nowhere on your resume.
 A reader who sees only role titles concludes you are a corporate HR person who sits in an office, which is the wrong impression and has cost you a screen before.

Interim and unofficial in title, real and full in substance. Do not upgrade it to running the plant. Do not understate it either.

Story 4, in reserve. The hiring process

You were part of a Kaizen on the hiring process, global in reach, affecting thousands of hiring managers, and the cycle moved from roughly a 60-day average to under 30. 
Part of, never led.
 Abby led the overall effort.

Hold this unless recruiting comes up, and it very likely will, because recruiting is the first bullet in their own use-case list. Note what it proves: 
the biggest hiring improvement on your record came from redesigning the process, not from adding technology.
 That is a useful thing to say to a company about to point AI at its recruiting, and it is the restraint that makes the rest of your AI enthusiasm credible.

Where the story set is genuinely weak, said plainly.
 Council caught this and it is fair. Only story 1 is about a 
system
 landing on people. Stories 2, 3 and 4 are change management, which is adjacent but not the same claim. If they ask specifically about driving adoption of a piece of technology, you have one enterprise example, not three. Do not stretch the others into that shape. Story 1 plus your own system is the honest answer, and the four-question test covers the rest.

One thing you already did well in round one, worth repeating.
 You raised the works council point yourself, unprompted. Do it again. At a German-headquartered company an HR AI rollout does not ship because it works technically, it ships because the people affected agreed to it, and that agreement has to be a designed-in step rather than paperwork chased after a pilot exists. Say it as "at a German employer, in my understanding" and let them correct the specifics. Whether HARTING has a works council and how it is structured is not confirmed anywhere I looked.

Tessera: the recommendation

Recommendation: show the principle. Never the product, the architecture, the mechanism or the name.
 This changes what you were leaning toward, and the main reason is not the commercial risk you were worried about.

What to say, if it comes up at all

State it as a position you hold about how the work should be done. No product attached:

Copy

When I run analysis on people data, the identities do not go to an outside model. The business numbers have to come back untouched or the analysis is worthless, and the names were never the part that made it useful. That is a rule I hold to in my own work, and it is the first thing I would want settled here before anything touched real employee records.

Why not show it

There is nothing built to show.
 The spec is explicit that no code exists on the mainline. A tool you describe but cannot demonstrate is worse than no tool, because it invites a request you cannot satisfy, and that is the part they remember.

The real risk is what it says about you, not that they build it.
 This is the part you had not weighted. Telling a prospective employer you are building a product you intend to sell reads, to a manager deciding whether to bet on you, as a business you are going back to. You are already a founder applying for an employed seat and they will already be wondering about that. Handing them a second reason is expensive, and the artifact was never going to pay for it.

The commercial risk is real but secondary.
 The genuinely defensible parts are describable in one sentence, which is what makes them easy to hand over by accident.

The principle is the part hardest to copy anyway.
 A feature list can be rebuilt by any competent engineering team. A person who can say why the numbers have to survive, and what breaks if they do not, is the part that took a career in HR to produce. Give away what is hard to copy and costs nothing to say. Keep what is easy to copy.

What would change this answer

They ask directly
 whether you have built anything for handling sensitive data with AI. Answer honestly in one sentence: you are building a tool for your own client work that does this, it is not finished, and you are happy to talk about the approach. No architecture, no name, let them lead.

The conversation turns to vendor risk or procurement.
 That is the one context where the position is useful to them rather than a side project of yours.

An offer is on the table and intellectual property comes up.
 Then it stops being an interview question and becomes a contract question.

If you take this job this becomes a real question, not a hypothetical.
 An employer doing AI in HR, and a tool you own that does AI on HR data, is an intellectual-property conversation to have in writing at offer stage. That is not a reason to avoid the role. It is a reason not to raise the tool casually on Monday and have to renegotiate the framing later.

Your lines, voice-gated

Both scored below the bar as first drafted and were corrected. Scores and changes at the bottom.

The opener, roughly ninety seconds

Copy

I spent ten years in global HR leadership for a Fortune 100 company. GE Healthcare, then Gas Power out of Atlanta as HR business partner for a global engineering organization supporting employees across almost every country in the world, and most recently four years based in Dubai.

The through line is that I kept ending up as the person who had to make a new system actually land with people who did not ask for it. A platform migration, a restructuring, a plant floor.

Then I got tired of watching leaders make people decisions off a reporting pack that took six to eight hours to build and described last week by the time it landed. So I worked on the thing that fixed it. That process is ten minutes now.

Now I design and run a multi-agent system that handles my own business day to day, and the part I care most about is not what it does on its own. It is the line between what it does alone and what it brings back to a person. I wrote that line down before it went live, not after something went wrong.

This role is the first job description I have read that puts both of those halves in the same seat.

Naming the seam, in the first five minutes

Copy

I want to name the thing Nancy already named, because it is a fair point and I would rather put it on the table myself.

I have not run an AI program at the scale you are hiring for. What I have done is the whole loop at a smaller scale, end to end, and the harder half of the big loop at yours.

The part that breaks a rollout your size is almost never the model. It is that the people it landed on heard about it afterward instead of being brought along before. That half I have done at your size.

The capacity reframe, once, early

This line and Story 2 above are the same standing strength said two ways: you build the plan where none exists, rather than execute one that is already written. Do not name that identity out loud here, let the two lines carry it on their own.

Copy

Something I noticed reading your year rather than the job description. The Americas grew thirty-three percent, you have said publicly you plan to grow US headcount by sixty-four percent, and you have just signed a group-wide move to SAP cloud.

An HR function that does not grow while its population grows by that much has a capacity problem before it has an AI problem. And a people agenda landing on top of a live ERP migration has to be sequenced against it or it gets starved of the platform it depends on.

That is the shape of work I have done before. I did a multi-year workforce plan for a redesigned engineering organization during a tight-budget stretch, and I helped with a platform migration at the same time. Is that reading close to right from where you sit?

Handing them the working documents

Copy

Rather than talk about this in the abstract, I wrote down how I actually decide. It is four questions I run before anything gets automated, and I applied them to the work that usually comes up first in an HR function. Would it be useful if I walked you through it for a couple of minutes?

Raising level and comp, early rather than late

Copy

One thing I would rather name now than three rounds in. The title here is Expert, and my recent work has sat at a more senior level. What pulled me to apply anyway is the mandate, because it is global and it is the closest thing I have seen to what I actually do.

I am open to the seat as written if the scope is real. I would also want to understand whether there is room to talk about level as the process goes on. On the range, I saw the posted band and I would be looking at the upper half of it, and I am more interested in getting the scope right than in squeezing the number.

Voice gate results.

Opener: 88 as first drafted, 93 corrected.
 "So I built the thing that fixed it" became "So I worked on the thing that fixed it", because the role attribution on that dashboard is unconfirmed in your own record and the claim-downgrade rule takes the weaker accurate verb until you confirm it. If you confirm it, "built" goes back in and the line gets stronger. "Since then I design and run" became "Now I design and run", fixing a tense collision. The ten years and the four years in Dubai are written as one span throughout.

Seam line: 86 as first drafted, 94 corrected.
 "I have the scars to prove it" was cut as a cliche kicker that undercut a line already landing. "At six thousand people" became "your size", because a specific number there shrinks the claim instead of sharpening it. "Because you are going to be thinking it anyway" became "because it is a fair point", since the first version tells them what they think. The gap is framed as situational, which it is, rather than as a character flaw, which it is not.

Questions to ask them

Round two with a hiring manager and their manager is a scope and fit conversation. Your questions do more work here than your answers.

The one almost nobody will ask

Where does RISE with SAP sit against this roadmap?
 Does the HR AI agenda wait for the migration, run alongside it, or build on what lands? That single question shows you understand what year they are having.

On the mandate

Who owns the global HR AI agenda today, and what does this seat decide on its own versus recommend?

Is this a new seat or a backfill, and what made you open it now?

Your posting describes a One HR AI Experience as a central entry point. Is that a destination you have already agreed internally, or is defining it part of the job?

On the constraint

How do you expect employee representatives to be involved when a system like this is introduced, and at what point?

How much of the first year do you expect to be building belief inside HR versus building systems?

On the year they are having

With US headcount planned to grow that much, what is happening to the size of the HR function that supports it?

Elgin is mid-expansion. How does that change what HR needs from this seat in the first year?

On the geography

With top management now in Switzerland and the entity in Espelkamp, where do decisions about this agenda actually get made?

How do you see this role working day to day across the US and Europe?

The two closers

You use culture and competency as evaluation criteria. I heard a third one and did not catch it. What is it?

What is the process from here, and what is the timeline?

Council: five voices on the show-and-tell strategy

The Contrarian

Five artifacts in a one-hour conversation with two people is not show-and-tell, it is a pitch deck, and the manager's manager did not clear an hour to watch a presentation. Round two with a hiring manager and their manager is a fit and scope conversation. Show up with five prepared documents and you spend the hour presenting and none of it learning what they want, and you read as someone who needs to prove himself rather than someone evaluating them too. The candidate-process teardown is a live grenade: telling your hosts their recruiting email went to your spam folder, in front of the manager's manager, is a candidate correcting the room, and the person who sent that invite is the one advocating for you. Separately, "the method survives scale" is a rhetorical move, not evidence. A skeptic hears "I have not done it but my approach would work," which is what every candidate says. The bridge only carries if the change-management stories are about a system landing on people, and only one of the three is.

The First Principles Thinker

The question as asked is what he can show to prove he can do enterprise AI in HR. That optimizes the wrong variable. Nobody buys proof of enterprise AI at $110k to $150k for an individual-contributor seat in Elgin; they buy that from a consultancy and pay several times more. A six-thousand-person family-owned Mittelstand opening this seat is buying the first person who can do this credibly inside its HR function without frightening anyone, survive the works council and the EU rules, and not embarrass the family name. The real question in that room is whether he is safe with their people and whether Germany will accept him. So the artifacts about judgment and restraint matter more than the ones about capability, and the enterprise-scale gap is not his biggest risk. The biggest risk is that he is a US-based founder who would be managed from Germany, and nothing in the plan addresses it.

The Expansionist

He is interviewing for a seat one band below his stated floor while holding a costed fractional retainer idea in his back pocket. The larger play is not to win this job, it is to become the person this HR function calls when it needs this done, in whatever contract shape that turns out to be. Bigger still: they signed RISE with SAP while growing US headcount 64%, and nobody has connected that announcement to this requisition. That connection is worth more than every artifact combined, because it converts him from a candidate with a theory into a candidate who read their year. The framing everyone is missing is capacity, not AI. A function that stays the same size while its population grows by nearly two thirds is where automation earns its keep rather than being a slide.

The Outsider

Reading this cold, with no knowledge of the industry: a man who runs his own AI business is applying to a connector manufacturer for a job paying less than he says his floor is, and the plan is to bring five documents. If I am the manager's manager, sitting in Germany at four on a Monday afternoon, my first three questions are why does he want this, will he still be here in eighteen months, and can I manage him from here. Nothing in this plan answers any of them. Also, and this is what insiders miss: show and tell was his phrase, not theirs. Nobody at that company asked for a presentation. If he arrives with a prepared deck and they expected a conversation, the mismatch itself is the bad signal. And saying you are building a product you intend to sell, to a prospective employer, sounds like a side business you are going back to. Holding the product back is right, but the stated reason is commercial and the real reason is that it makes him sound temporary.

The Executor

It is Wednesday and the call is Monday. He realistically has two working days, already containing a Walmart interview tomorrow, a coaching session, a daily pipeline quota he treats as non-negotiable, and a call with Norm Smallwood at ten on Monday morning, two hours after this interview ends. Five artifacts at two to three hours each does not fit the week. Cut to two. And the actual first action is not building anything: there is no invite. No calendar entry, no email, no join link, no names. If that does not land by Friday he is preparing for a meeting he cannot join, and the plan buries that under artifact design. One more gap: no artifact has a stated delivery mechanism. A prepared page with no agreed way to get it in front of two people on a video call is a document that stays on his laptop.

Chairman synthesis

Convergence, four or five voices:
 the artifact count was overbuilt and had to be cut; the candidate-process teardown is the highest-risk item and should go; the missing invite outranks every artifact as the first action; evidence of judgment beats evidence of capability for this specific buyer.

Divergence, named rather than averaged.
 The Contrarian says the bridge is weak rhetoric a skeptic sees through, so the GE stories must carry it. First Principles says the bridge barely matters because they are not buying enterprise-AI proof at all. The Expansionist says do not optimize for winning the job. These do not reconcile, and the stakes are real: if First Principles is right, heavy capability preparation is wasted; if the Contrarian is right and they are genuinely screening for scale, thin capability preparation loses the room. 
The band and the title price First Principles as more likely, but that is a judgment.
 Prepare judgment first, keep the capability answer ready, let their first two questions tell you which room you are in.

What all five missed:
 the third evaluation criterion from round one is still unknown. Preparing hard against two known criteria while a third sits unidentified is optimizing against an incomplete rubric, and the cheapest fix is to ask.

Recommendation: CHANGE.
 Keep the strategy and the bridge. Cut the artifact count. Cut the candidate-process teardown entirely. Demote the GE dashboard from a document to a spoken story until its attribution is confirmed. Put the invite-confirmation email ahead of all of it.

Monday morning

The concrete next step:
 send the email in 
Do this first
 today, asking for the invite and the participants. Everything else here is worth less than that one message.

The open question only you can answer:
 did the round-two invite arrive somewhere the system cannot see, and if so, who are the two people?

How the artifact count was resolved after Council ran.
 Council said cut to two. You then said build the artifacts and build what works. Both are satisfied: four documents ship, but they are three tightly-related pieces of one argument plus the applied table, on a single page, which is one thing to open and one thing to walk through. The count Council objected to was five 
separate
 things competing for an hour. The teardown stayed cut, and the GE dashboard stayed unbuilt pending your confirmation.

Karpathy audit

Principle

Verdict

Evidence and action

1. Think before acting

WARN

I began designing artifacts before establishing that the meeting exists and who is on it. Action taken: invite confirmation is now step one.

2. Simplicity first

WARN

Originally FAIL at five separate artifacts. Corrected to one page carrying one argument. Still the largest risk in the plan if he presents rather than converses.

3. Surgical

PASS

Scope stayed on this interview. The round-one page was reused and linked rather than rebuilt.

4. Goal-driven

WARN

Done was initially defined as a published page, which is my output and not his outcome. Restated: he can answer the enterprise-scale question in sixty seconds without notes, and has something built to show.

5. Complexity hotspots

N/A

No code. Report-only.

6. Verification

WARN

Rungs labelled throughout. The job description is rung 5, read first-party from his inbox. Company facts rung 4 to 5. The round-one record is rung 4, his own same-day debrief. 
The GE dashboard attribution is rung 1, asserted only
, so it was not built into an artifact. The two interviewers are unknown and refused.

7. Debugging protocol

N/A

No defect under investigation.

8. Dependencies

PASS

No new tooling. Existing page conventions, existing publish rail, existing round-one page.

9. Communication

PASS

The missing invite, the unconfirmed attribution, the unknown third criterion and the European-timezone inference are all stated as what they are.

10. Failure modes

WARN

Kitchen Sink detected
 in the original five-artifact plan, clearest in the candidate-process teardown. Corrected before shipping.

Final call: SHIP
, after the corrections. As originally drafted it was a HOLD on Principle 2 alone.

The uncomfortable question, answered honestly.
 Was I solving the real problem or a more comfortable adjacent one? Partly the latter. Designing artifacts is satisfying and adjacent to the real problem, which is that a hiring manager has to decide whether to bet on someone whose evidence does not match the job description. Artifacts help at the margin. What decides it is whether he names the gap himself, whether the GE stories are concrete, and whether he reads their year correctly. That is why the capacity reframe moved up the page.

What I need from you

Every one of these is a real gap in the record. None is guessed anywhere on this page or in the working documents.

The round-two invite. Did it arrive somewhere I cannot see, and who are the two people?
 Nothing in Gmail, nothing on your calendar. Without it there is no platform, no join link and no names. Highest priority.

The GE reporting dashboard: what exactly was your role?
 Your canonical record places it in the GE Vernova years and flags the attribution as needing one sentence from you that has never been given. Did you design it, build it, sponsor it, or specify it and have someone else build it? This decides whether your strongest AI proof point is "I built" or "I worked on", and whether I build it into a fifth document.

The Workday migration: a day and a person.
 Who was the first colleague who came to you for help, and what did they ask? One name and one question turns a credential into a story.

Madison: one scene from the floor.
 What is one thing someone said to you on that floor that you would not have heard from an office?

The restructuring: what was the hardest conversation?
 A multi-year workforce plan during a budget squeeze means telling somebody something they did not want to hear. Who, and what did you tell them?

The third C.
 Has it resurfaced since round one? If not it is on the questions list to ask them directly.

Has anything moved since 9/09?
 Any call, text, LinkedIn message or voicemail from Nancy or anyone at HARTING that is not in your Gmail.

How do you want to deliver the documents?
 My recommendation is hold and offer, using the handing-them-over line in 
Your lines
, rather than presenting unprompted. But it is your call and it changes nothing about the documents themselves.

The fractional idea: is it live for this round?
 Your own standing rule was to raise it only on an offer or a signal they are going a different direction. Round two is neither. Confirm it stays in the pocket.

What is verified, and what is not

First-party, read directly this session

The full job description, salary band, benefits and requirement list, read verbatim out of Nancy's own email in your inbox.

Nancy Lesnicki's title, email, cell and the Elgin address, from her own signature.

The benefits guide arriving 2026-09-16 at 2:16pm Mountain with no meeting details.

Your thank-you email, sent 2026-09-09 at 3:50pm Mountain. It went out.

The absence of any round-two invite. Gmail searched for HARTING and Lesnicki across all threads; calendar listed 19 to 22 September and searched for HARTING.

Your calendar for Monday 2026-09-21, including the 10:00am Norm Smallwood call and the open 8:00 to 10:00 window.

The round-one record: what Nancy pressed on, the three evaluation criteria, the reporting line, the location and travel discussion, and the two proof points you cited. From your own same-day debrief.

Verified from public sources this session

Around 6,100 people, 42 sales companies, 14 production facilities, seven development sites. Roughly &euro;1.1bn revenue, up about 17%. Third-generation family-owned, Espelkamp.

Americas up 33%, outpacing the group. Jon DeSouza is President and CEO of HARTING Americas and sits on the group board as Chief Sales and Marketing Officer.

RISE with SAP: a signed long-term contract moving to SAP Cloud ERP Private, framed by their CEO as the foundation for using data and AI across their processes. 
This is an ERP announcement. It does not name SuccessFactors or an HR-specific component
, and nothing here implies it did.

Carried from the round-one page, not re-verified today

The Switzerland top-management headquarters from 1 October 2025, the Elgin expansion and the 64% US headcount plan, the roughly 188 Elgin site headcount, the Fort Worth reporting, and the EU AI Act and works-council detail. All sourced 2026-09-04. 
The Fort Worth item was explicitly preliminary then and may have moved
, since a council vote was referenced for 29 September.

Unknown. Do not guess in the room

Who the hiring manager and their manager are.
 Not found anywhere.

The platform and join link for Monday.

Whether anyone on the call is in Europe. The 4:00pm equivalence is an inference, not a fact.

Your exact role on the GE reporting dashboard.

The third evaluation criterion.

Whether HARTING has a works council and how it is structured. The co-determination points are general German law, not a claim about their house.

Any named Americas HR leader. Searched again today, still not found. A global VP HR name appears in third-party contact databases and is not confirmed on their own site. Do not use it.

The working documents

Round-one prep page

The live posting

 Built 2026-09-16 for the Monday 2026-09-21, 8:00am Mountain conversation. Career facts drawn from the canonical profile, with the locked phrasings on tenure, the Kaizen, the Workday rollout and the Culture Ambassadors applied throughout. Council and Karpathy both changed this plan before it shipped. Nothing here is a reconstructed job description, and no interviewer name, join link or unconfirmed claim is invented anywhere on this page or in the working documents.

 /* Base link-colour safety net -- see comment above. Zero-specificity fallback only;
 any page-authored {color:...} rule (even at the same normal specificity) wins. */
 :where(a){color:#FF8F5E;}
 :where(a:visited){color:#B87333;}
 :where(a:hover),:where(a:active){color:#FFB08A;}
 /* Floating controls, bottom-right. Thumb-reachable on a phone, out of the way of the
 deploy stamp (which moves to bottom-LEFT under 560px). */
 #rf-controls{position:fixed;right:14px;bottom:16px;z-index:99998;display:flex;
 flex-direction:column;gap:8px;align-items:flex-end;}
 #rf-controls button{appearance:none;-webkit-appearance:none;cursor:pointer;
 font:600 13px/1 -apple-system,Segoe UI,Roboto,Helvetica,Arial,sans-serif;
 color:#e7e9ee;background:rgba(28,32,42,0.92);border:1px solid rgba(236,226,210,0.22);
 border-radius:999px;padding:10px 14px;min-height:40px;
 box-shadow:0 4px 14px rgba(0,0,0,0.35);backdrop-filter:blur(6px);
 -webkit-backdrop-filter:blur(6px);transition:opacity .18s ease,transform .18s ease;}
 #rf-controls button:hover{transform:translateY(-1px);}
 #rf-controls button:focus-visible{outline:2px solid #FF8F5E;outline-offset:2px;}
 #rf-top{opacity:0;pointer-events:none;}
 #rf-top.rf-show{opacity:1;pointer-events:auto;}
 /* Phone: shrink the controls so they cover as little body text as possible, AND on
 mobile only, gate the fold-all button behind the same scroll threshold as back-to-top
 (2026-08-31 fix -- see memory/feedback for the incident). At the top of a page on a
 375px screen the first card can run right into the bottom-right corner where these
 controls float, so on load (scrollY 0) BOTH buttons now stay hidden instead of just
 back-to-top; they fade in together once he has actually scrolled, by which point the
 card that used to sit under them has scrolled out of the way. Desktop is untouched --
 this whole hide/show behaviour lives inside the mobile media query only.
 NOTE: the old opacity:.93 on the shared button rule below used to silently win over
 #rf-top{opacity:0} (higher specificity: #rf-controls button beats a bare #rf-top
 inside this media query), which is WHY back-to-top was rendering fully visible over
 card text on mobile even at scrollY 0 despite the JS gating existing. Removed. */
 @media (max-width:560px){
 #rf-controls{right:10px;bottom:12px;gap:6px;}
 #rf-controls button{padding:0 11px;font-size:12px;}
 #rf-foldall{opacity:0;pointer-events:none;}
 #rf-foldall.rf-show{opacity:.93;pointer-events:auto;}
 #rf-top.rf-show{opacity:.93;}
 }
 @media (prefers-color-scheme: light){
 #rf-controls button{color:#1b1b1b;background:rgba(255,255,255,0.94);
 border-color:rgba(0,0,0,0.16);}
 }
 @media print{ #rf-controls{display:none !important;} }

Collapse all

&#8593; Top

(function () {
 'use strict';

 // ---- back to top (+ mobile-only fold-all gating, same threshold) --------------
 var topBtn = document.getElementById('rf-top');
 var foldBtnEarly = document.getElementById('rf-foldall');
 function onScroll() {
 var show = (window.pageYOffset || document.documentElement.scrollTop) > 320;
 if (topBtn) { topBtn.classList.toggle('rf-show', show); }
 // rf-show only affects visibility of #rf-foldall inside the mobile media query
 // (see CSS above) -- on desktop this class is inert, so no behaviour change there.
 if (foldBtnEarly) { foldBtnEarly.classList.toggle('rf-show', show); }
 }
 window.addEventListener('scroll', onScroll, { passive: true });
 onScroll();
 if (topBtn) {
 topBtn.addEventListener('click', function () {
 window.scrollTo({ top: 0, behavior: 'smooth' });
 });
 }

 // ---- fast re-entry: remember what he folded ----------------------------------
 // Key on the page path so every review page keeps its own memory, and on a stable
 // per-section key so reordering content does not scramble which sections were shut.
 var STORE = 'rf-fold:' + (location.pathname || 'page');

 function readState() {
 try { return JSON.parse(localStorage.getItem(STORE) || '{}') || {}; }
 catch (e) { return {}; }
 }
 function writeState(s) {
 try { localStorage.setItem(STORE, JSON.stringify(s)); } catch (e) { /* private mode */ }
 }

 function keyFor(d, i) {
 if (d.id) { return 'id:' + d.id; }
 var s = d.querySelector(':scope > summary');
 var label = s ? (s.textContent || '').trim().slice(0, 60) : '';
 return label ? 'sum:' + label : 'idx:' + i;
 }

 var details = Array.prototype.slice.call(document.querySelectorAll('details'));
 if (!details.length) {
 // Nothing collapsible on this page -- hide the fold-all control rather than lie
 // about what it does. Back-to-top still works.
 var fa0 = document.getElementById('rf-foldall');
 if (fa0) { fa0.style.display = 'none'; }
 return;
 }

 var state = readState();
 var restored = false;
 details.forEach(function (d, i) {
 var k = keyFor(d, i);
 d.setAttribute('data-rf-key', k);
 // FIRST visit (no stored value) -> leave the author's markup alone, which the
 // template ships fully OPEN. REPEAT visit -> restore exactly what he left.
 if (Object.prototype.hasOwnProperty.call(state, k)) {
 d.open = !!state[k];
 restored = true;
 }
 d.addEventListener('toggle', function () {
 var s = readState();
 s[d.getAttribute('data-rf-key')] = d.open;
 writeState(s);
 syncFoldLabel();
 });
 });

 // ---- expand all / collapse all -----------------------------------------------
 var foldBtn = document.getElementById('rf-foldall');
 function anyOpen() {
 return details.some(function (d) { return d.open; });
 }
 function syncFoldLabel() {
 if (!foldBtn) { return; }
 foldBtn.textContent = anyOpen() ? 'Collapse all' : 'Expand all';
 }
 if (foldBtn) {
 foldBtn.addEventListener('click', function () {
 var target = !anyOpen(); // if everything is shut, open everything
 var s = readState();
 details.forEach(function (d) {
 d.open = target;
 s[d.getAttribute('data-rf-key')] = target;
 });
 writeState(s);
 syncFoldLabel();
 });
 syncFoldLabel();
 }

 // If we restored a folded state, jump the reader back to the top so the page does
 // not open mid-content after the reflow.
 if (restored && !location.hash) { window.scrollTo(0, 0); }
})();

